# 53. NULL Values, Inserting (No) Data & Default Values

> ## `NULL` Values, Inserting (No) Data & Default Values
>
> ### Introducing `NULL`
>
> In the previous lecture, you learned about the special `NULL` value - which simply means that a record has no data for a specific column.
>
> As mentioned, `NULL` is not the same as `0` or `0.0` for numeric columns or `''` (i.e. an empty string, empty text) for text columns. The latter examples (0, 0.0, '') are examples for values that are available - there is no missing data here. `0` is a valid number after all.
>
> ### How can you insert NULL as a value?
>
> You simply insert it by omitting a column (and its value) in the INSERT INTO statement.
>
> Here's an example:
>
> Assume that you have a table that was created like this:
>
> ```sql
> CREATE TABLE example (
>   full_name VARCHAR(200),
>   salary INT
> );
> ```
>
> Data could be inserted like this:
>
> ```sql
> INSERT INTO example (full_name, salary)
> VALUES ('Max Schwarz', 19000);
> ```
>
> In this case, no `NULL` data would end up in the inserted row as values are provided for all columns.
>
> Here's the same example without a salary:
>
> ```sql
> INSERT INTO example (full_name)
> VALUES ('Max Schwarz');
> ```
>
> Only the `full_name` column is referenced (and receives a value). `salary` is omitted - both in the column as well as in the `VALUES` list. In this case, no data would be written into the salary column for this inserted row - i.e. `NULL` would be the assumed value for salary for this record.
>
> If you would perform an operation like the below one, the `NULL` value would be ignored and would therefore not distort the overall result:
>
> ```sql
> SELECT AVG(salary) FROM example; -- The average would be calculated without taking the NULL values into account (i.e. NULL is NOT treated as 0!)
> ```
>
> ### NULL and DEFAULT Values
>
> If you have a table definition where some (or all) columns have default values (defined via `DEFAULT`), those columns can never store `NULL` as a value - even if no specific data is provided in the `INSERT INTO` statement. The reason for that is, that the `DEFAULT` value will be used if no specific data is provided.
